=============
 Revert Reds
=============

After a call to 311 the one at the end of my street seems to be
behaving a bit more predictably, which is good for me and others in
the area, but misses the heart of the problem.

Current traffic policy leans towards keeping the cars flowing.  Biking
about the city at present, it is startling how much space is given
over to cars and how much it impedes other means of travel.

The current city traffic management is inconsistent with the city's
declaration of a climate emergency and statement in the official plan
that it desires to raise use of active transport and transit.


Cycling across town the other day, down Somerset St.  It was a very
enjoyable ride, the streets were very quiet.

There are many lights along the route, hardly two share the same
protocols:

* pedestrians get head start
  
* pedestrains and bikes both have their own symbols and get a head
  start

* some just have the one set of lights for all.

have cycle lights and priority too. Each junction is a little
different, as we see how ideas have evolved through projects over
time.

Adding revert reds to this mix of light protocols is inviting
problems.

Returning to the quiet that also makes it safer and more enjoyable,
With the downtown quiet, the city is at a crossroads. How
to restore some vibrancy?

The city and the government might want to consider turning some
offices into public work spaces. A place you can go to do your remote
work, meet others doing similar work.

Business such as shopify, now remote working, have excellent office
spaces which would be excellent co-working spaces.

Indeed Shopify is an interesting example, with its association with
open source software and communities.  

These communities have been collaborating on critical software bases
for over 30 years.  Our entire IT infrastructure is built on open
source.  And it was built through global collaboration facilitated by
the internet and tools the community built to support collaboration.

One tool, in particular, is worth special mention, if only for the
name, *git*.

The arrival of the pandemic and the work from home era has brought
this remote collaboration to large sectors of the work force, albeit
with *zoom* and shared drives, maybe even *git* for version control.

The disruption has now been long enough that people have adapted to
the new normal and many rather like it.

Organisations too have adapted too.  I suspect the most successful
companies will be hybrid, with a decline in the demand for office space.

How to re-vitalise the down town?

Well let's return to open source communities.  Whilst the work
focussed on sharing collaborative documents (the source code and
documentation for a project), regular conferences were a key part of
the successful projects.

They gave opportunities for large numbers of individuals, typically
using some common tool to help them solve some other bigger problem.

Actual meeting others wrestling with the same computation problems,
but in different ideas was an incredible incubator of ideas and
stimulator of collaboration.

Working remotely and having opportunities to meet others dealing with
the same issues, but in different disciplines.

Within the city offices, the federal government and other large
employers in the city and Gatineau, there is a lot of under-used
office space.

How to get people to want to go and visit there?

I have heard some mention of co-operative working spaces would be an
excellent way for people from different disciplines to share their
experiences, insights and visions for the future.

In such work spaces it would be natural to have an extended working
day,  so the facility will be in use for more hours of the day and
commuting will be more evenly spread through the day.

As far as information technology is concerned, separation into public,
open projects versus internal private, projects would be hugely
beneficial.

The open parts of government could be co-located with the co-working
spaces.  Creating a unique opporunity to share ideas and increase
collaboration across the region.

On the information technology side, the potential cost savings are
enormous.

How are all these magical remote workers going to get to the city?

If you can keep the traffic out of town there are many low cost
solutions to getting there.

Reclaim some space from cars.   Make the bike lanes where you don't
stop rolling until you get where you are going.

Instead of wondering if the capacitance of your statusesque existence
is stable enough to turn a light red.



