==================================
 An New Paradigm for the Universe
==================================

Colin Rourke
October 2017

http://msp.warwick.ac.uk/~pr

This arrived just as I was finishing Fred Hoyle's book.

I had read, or rather skimmed, a pdf of the book a couple of months back.

I'm now up to chapter 4.  From what I recall from the pdf things are
downhill but full of delights from here.

The introduction sets out the plan.  Sciama spaces, Mach principles
and all sorts of weirdness.

I struggled a fair bit with chapters 2 and 3.

But it is all leading to an idea: an inertial drag generated by
rotating masses that drops off with distance r.

If you add that to Einstein's general relativity then the spiral
galaxy velocity curves we see are almost inevitable.

There are other important claims in the book.

It is only a matter of time before someone writes a headline::

  No big bang theory!

What Colin provides is a model that explains why galaxies look the way
they do.

Some features:

* no need for dark matter.

* the universe could be many orders of magnitude older than the
  current 13 billion year estimate.

* this estimate is based on how long a spiral galaxy may be able to
  sustain itself.

The big bang is predicated on the assumption that because the universe
appears to be expanding and extrapolating backwads.

But expansion is more complex than you might think.

The argument is that there is more than one way to make light shift
red.

In particular, inertial drag from an nearby, fast rotating black
hole.




A personal view of all the things they say
==========================================

Angular momentum.  Mass.  Velocity.

Gravity waves.

According to this model, our sun formed in the star forming region
near the black hole at the centre of our spiral.

??? how old is the sun

We just happen to be living in a long stable period.  How long has it
been beating?

My personal view is that our visible universe, and likely much of the
invisible, the latter likely vastly larger, at some point involved a
collision between giant black holes.

So it is useful to consider what happens when such collisions happen.

What do the gravitational fields look like emerging from the hole?

A twisting of the baryon space which we are part of.

A quasi infinite array of twisting spirals dancing the strings of time.

The quantum field, the rhythm of life.




Longer term
-----------


One thing that is quite clear here is we can build very much better
models for key parts of our solar system: the very same computer
models can be used at each level.

Indeed, it is possible to simulate a world where we divide our
universe of interest into nested shells.   You just throttle the
information flow between shells, hopefully no throttling is necessary.

Now in our current world we have many experts who can help refine
models for each shell.



Footnote
========

I just put down the thoughts down, before I go on to the further
chapters.

As I have already read the next bit once I suspect much of what I
wrote above is what I picked up on the first read, or things that
Colin is well aware of but a diversion from the subject of the book.

 

