============
 Dear Colin
============

 ::
   
    This book provides a completely new approach to understanding the
    universe. The main idea is that the principal objects in the
    universe form a spectrum unified by the presence of a massive or
    hypermassive black hole. These objects are variously called
    quasars, active galaxies and spiral galaxies. The key to
    understanding their dynamics is angular momentum and the key tool,
    and main innovative idea of this work, is a proper formulation of
    “Mach’s principle” using Sciama’s ideas.

The first paragraph in Colin Rourke's, "A new paradigm for the
universe".

Feedback from chief editor was that more explanation was needed.

First of all, I mentioned a lot of people, particularly in the fields
of mathematics and theoretical physics.

I think all of them have been in some way trying to describe wider
pictures.

And it feels like there is nothing that I am thinking that has not
been thought before.

I still have not made it back to a second read of your book, but have
been thinking a lot about Sciama spaces, Minkowski too with some
Poincare too.

Now these are all things others understand better than me.



::

   spectrum unified by rotating masses


Solar System
============

Gravity
=======


Magentism
=========

Cosmic Microwave Background
===========================

Black hole spirals
==================

Big bang???

When?



Waves
=====

Energy mass and rotation.


Of all the things they say
==========================

Good to be able to speak to someone who has better insights than I do.

Time and space: all relative

I tend to look at it after factoring out local matter from the
geometry.

At least some of the time.

Cosmology has always intrigued me.  So easy to get into a circular
argument and not even know you are there.

Rather you are off on a spiral of promise.

Giant black holes at the centres of galaxies.

I remember being at school, maybe 7 years old.  Probably the same
class room Fred Hoyle once sat in.

Someone mentioned black holes were a thing.   No this wasn't Star
Trek.

Well yes.. like on star trek, but real.

So over the years, dark matter has appeared.   Or rather hasn't.

Now since galaxies seem to be rather homogeneously distributed about
our visible universe it would seem you can place as much matter as you
like in the centres of those galaxes, at least within a couple of
orders of magnitude in some units.

(now we are going round in circles).

I am thinking about my talk for Py Caribbean.

I need to get it sorted so I can start practicing.

The title is:

The tankrain karma pi rongo rongo show
======================================

::
   
    A talk about natural cats of all sorts.

    The wonders of the universe

    The world of python and pi

    Gravity and lightness

    Moai and madness

    The rongo rongo way.

Now I understand if you hesitate to be associated with this.

Tankrain
--------

is a few lines of python code I use to view images.

Its great for photos, presentations and viewing plots from
simulations.

Or climate data plotted on a grid (note to self use molleweide??)

If you can model the water on earth you really have the climate and
weather within your model.

This water is in liquid, ice and water vapour form.   Along with other
gases in the atmosphere.

An inner core, solid earth with rotating inner molten core.

Water and ice on land and in the atmosphere.

Shells as the radius of the sphere increases.

A hurricane is powered by the difference in temperature between the
hot ocean and the cold upper atmosphere.

A flow of moist warm air heads upwards, cooler air sucked in.

A daily bathing of sunlight overhead.

And tides and waves driving the ocean.
 
Dragged away from the equatorial plane, drag increasing as you move north.
    
karma pi
--------

This is where I experiment with ideas and bits of python code.

Mostly I end up with too much to think about before I do too much
damage and write actual code.

But there are a lot of pieces that can be used to fit models to data
and then simulate futures (and pasts, as we know, time and all that).

And provide insights.

The good news is the code is extremely general.

Most modules can be read on their own and only really require ability
to read python.

As my ideas get more solid, so will the code.

rongo rongo
-----------

Round and round we go.
 
Rongo Rongo is the name given to an ancient script written by the Rapa
Nui people who inhabited the island of the same name, now Easter
Island or Isla de Pascua.

It is famous for the magnificent Moai, giant statues carved out of
volcanic rocks.

The distribution of Moai about the island is fascinating.

The people said they walked on their own, using the power of mana.

*moon.py* is the beginnings of some code to simulate the gravitational
and magnetic fields of the island.

How strong would the magnetic field need to be to allow the Moai to
wobble as pendulums, driven by the moon and the stars?

The code is intended to be entirely general, so could equally be used
to simulate the forces of gravity and magnetism in a spiral galaxy.

Or rather it could be, once I finish writing it.

And rongo rongo?

Well the text goes round and round.   Two spirals of mystic figures,
meeting in the centre, or starting there and moving out, in a dance as
the Moai walk by the ahu by the shore.

By the time the tablets were noticed, all the wise who could read were
gone, but we are told they were chants, but what do people chant?

And why does everything go round and round in rapa nui?

Python
------

Happy Birthday!  27?

Gravity
-------

LIGO:  2-3 years

As soon as it was sensitive enough to do so, this detector found what
it was designed to find.

Anyne got updates from this and other gravity wave projects?

Note that this observation suggests such events are common place.

This is no doubt consistent with the theory that galaxies can be
extremely long lived.

Presumably in time the LIGO experiment (and related efforts) will
confirm the homogeneity (or not) of space time.

I would expect to see interesting correlations with the cosmic
microwave background.


