============
 Dear Colin
============

::
   
   And also about your ideas, which I haven't understood at all so far.

So where to begin?


Energy and matter
=================

::

   e = m * c * c

c is the beat of time, let's set it to one.


Planck's constant
=================

::

   e = h * f

   momentum too, with conservation.


Gravity
=======

::

   f = G * a * b / (r * r)

G turns up in two ways:  gravitational force and inertial resistance


2015:  gravitational waves are a thing.

Time
====

Follow a wave, one full wavelength is a beat of time.

And the length a unit of distance.

A moving point.

Light
=====

A single wave, pi out of phase with the gravity field.

Follows a geodesic in the background field.

Quantum
=======

Don't focus on the photon, its the whole field in play.

But maybe the background fields super smooth?

Polaroid Lenses
===============

Bell's inequaity

Harmonic series
===============

Cosmic microwave background


Energy to matter
================

hydrogen

electron

proton

Rotation
========

Recipe
======

Start with nothing, an empty space.

Three dimensions passing through time.

At the origin, a small sphere.

Not so much a sphere, a dense core with a moon orbitting around.

So the moon sends a wave of energy, which modulates the signal from
the nucleus below, as it too spins.

Now imagine the surface of the sphere 2 * r from the origin.

At time t, what of the sphere at t * r?

Mr Murphy
=========

Mr Murphy was my physics teacher for four years at King Ecgbert School
in sunny Sheffield.

"It works a lot better if you plug it in!".

Experimental physics?

::
   
   F = m_1 * m _ 2 / r^2

And something about Kepler and equal areas in equal time.

Parabola's, ellipses and hyperbolae?

And special relativity.

::
   
     E = m c * c

Equations of Minskoski space.

The constant G, acceleration due to gravity.  And this mysterious
thing inertia, which shared the same constant down to 10 decimal
places.

And the Dore four two.   Happy times.

Warwick
=======

Zeeman
------

Catastrophe
-----------

Godel
-----

Galois
------

Fermat
------

Fourier
-------

Poincare
--------

Quantum
-------

Information
-----------

Mathematics and simulation
==========================

     
Ideas
=====

::
   
    This book provides a completely new approach to understanding the
    universe. The main idea is that the principal objects in the
    universe form a spectrum unified by the presence of a massive or
    hypermassive black hole. These objects are variously called
    quasars, active galaxies and spiral galaxies. The key to
    understanding their dynamics is angular momentum and the key tool,
    and main innovative idea of this work, is a proper formulation of
    “Mach’s principle” using Sciama’s ideas.

The first paragraph in Colin Rourke's, "A new paradigm for the
universe".
    
Now there is an idea, and a good place to start.

Start with gravitational waves.  Add other things when you need, but
only when needed.

Draw a ball around your area of interest.

Assume what comes in, and goes out, is below the noise.

The idea if there is one here, is that these background gravitational
fields are extremely smooth in some sense.

So, if you are a photon riding a geodesic, its a pretty smooth ride,
exceot when it isn't: starting and stopping.

But this is illuminating when thinking about quantum phenomena.

So, a photon is riding a wave which is in harmony with the background
wave around it, or striving to be so.

Likewise, giant blackholes orbiting each other.

But as you raise, it is the spin of these massive objects that affects
the way the surroundings evolve.

If we think of a giant black hole, beating with the frequency of a
neutron, it's beat would move in sync with the surrounding background
beat of neutrons.  If it is not spinning relative to its surroundings,
however you care to measure that, then it has no influence beyond the
point where its gravitational field goes below the noise.

Since it is not spinning relative to the surroundings, it is not
modulating the background field.

Now at this point I usually bail out to python code and try and
simulate, rather than write equations.

I think the thing for me to do from here is to write some simulations
of my understanding of how a Sciama space works.

For me, it is the inside of 3-sphere, where the influence at drops of
linearly with distance.  I visualise this as a wave whose amplitude is
1/n at distance n.

One other thought.  When a spinning body's radiation drops to the
cosmic background level it is absorbing as much energy as it needs to
maintain its spin, so a self-sustaining system, given a constant
background.

::

   Gravitational waves from centres of mass dance in celestial
   harmony.

   Nature loves spirals.

   The quantum field is modulated by the beat of the surrounding
   masses.

   As they spin, so they spin the surrounding field.

PyCaribbean
===========

It was in February 2015 in Santo Domingo, during the first PyCaribbean
that Brandon Rhodes gave a keynote.

It was python's 25th birthday, give or take a day.

Brandon described how python had been intimately involved in the LIGO
project which had just announced the detection of gravitational waves.

It was an exciting time, full of possibilities.   Talk of climate and
weather and music and more.

Two years on I will be back in Santo Domingo this February.

I will be giving a talk, showing some of the things I have worked on
since then.

And sharing ideas that go who knows where?

Raspberry pi, pi, pie and py.
