===========================
 Expanding and contracting
===========================

*de Sitter space* is proposed in [1] as a model for the universe.

Within this space, time-like geodesics follow two distinct fields,
expanding and contracting fields.

This is perhaps one of the harder parts of the theory to picture.

Satelite loops of water vapour in the earth's atmosphere may help with
this.

This site has excellent animations:

     https://www.tropicaltidbits.com/sat/satlooper.php?region=atl&product=ir

Find an area where there is a tropical cyclone, and note how it both
sucks in moisture from the surroundings, with a distinct in-flow as
well as a distinct outflow.

A strong cyclone viewed from space has a striking resemblence to a
spiral galaxy.

So imagine instead of a thin slice of the earth's atmposphere, the
picture is a just a slice of a giant three dimensional space of
galaxies.

Each cyclone, now a galaxy.

Now we see how the giant masses at the galactic centres suck in matter
from the surroundings, way beyond the visible galaxy.

So what of the increasing red shift as we get deeper into the galaxy,
does that not mean that those galaxies are receding faster?

Or is that just how space time works?

Remember the galaxy is saturated, in fact appears to be in an almost
perfect equilibrium, like clouds of water vapour in our atmosphere.

Surely it is just the case, the further light travels the more it is
red shifted by the intervening matter?  An inertial drag that matter
has on space time.


How does this square with gamma ray bursts?
===========================================

A stream of photons from beyond the Hubble distance ends up slowed to
a crawl by the intervening matter, so it bursts on the scene, then
rapidly decays to a distant red?

When our path crosses such a stream we get the rapid burst before
things settle down and we have a new distant arrival.

Why so?   The intervening matter modulates the signal, adds harmonics?

Space time is tidal!



Postscript
==========

For some while I have been puzzling over how the universe is could be
in a steady state, with balanced expanding and contracting fields.

I had been focussing on the gamma ray bursts and representing new
arrivals in our visible universe, but puzzling why all arrivals are so
distance and things could possibly be in balance?

Now things make sense.  The redshift is just an artifact of matter.

I also note that the interpretation of 

[1] Another paradigm for the universe.
