============
 Dear Colin
============

Thank you very much for taking the time to spend a morning together
recently.

It was good to be back at Warwick, I barely recognised it.

I left with much to think about the paradigm.

Einstein and universal time.

Why quasars are important.

Homogeneity of space time.
 
de Sitter space, inherently expansive as t increases, distance from
origin does too.

The de Sciama principle is wonderful in it's simplicity.

It captures the natural behaviour of waves.

It is noted that the inertial frame at a point is determined
predominantly by the distant matter in the universe: there is just so
much more of it and gravitational waves drop off only linearly with
distance.

The fundamental property of these waves is that any matter is moved by
that wave, two bodies exchange deltas at the speed of light.

The effect is for all matter to tend towards being in phase with it's
surroundings, from there it's smooth riding.

Now while the background inertial field is of considerable interest,
what affects us locally is the delta of our inertial field, relative
to the universal background.

This delta is dominated by the local matter and so by moving in harmony
bodies can help sustain each other, this manifests itself as
gravitational attraction.

The inertial field itself is hard to detect, by definition all matter
in the universe is moving with it in some deep sense.

Locally, nearby masses distort this field. 



Our window on our universe
==========================

We see a window of 13 billion years, or maybe we see much more?

There are a lot of different ways of interpretting what we see as we
gaze into the universe.

Is the visible universe all there is or is it in a state of constant
re-birth?

The new paradigm shows galaxies can sustain themselves for incredible
periods of time.


The universe appears to be extraordinarily uniform, based on existing
observations.

It is also generally accepted that the visible universe is expansive.

There are many ways to give rise to such an expansive universe.

For example, assume our visible universe is just some band in a giant
spiral storm.

With cloud like structure, perhaps a giant winding tube within a wider
space.

Such structures could be sustained for unimagineable periods of time.

Oort Cloud
==========

Closer to home, the *Oort Cloud* has been in the news again.

This time a suggestion there might be a *planet* of some considerable
mass out there.

This is an intriguing, solar system formation.

Perhaps something that simulation can help enhance our understanding.

It does also suggest that a solar system might be able to sustain
itself much longer than is normally assumed.

Models do not seem to include considerations of in-flow of new matter
to a system.

This leads me closer to home and tropical cyclones.


Earth atmospherics
==================
 



Proton diversion
================

To boot strap things ... later?
