=====================
 Plate like rotation
=====================

Colin Rourke's, "Another Paradigm for the Universe", has a new
edition::

   The characteristic rotation curves for spiral galaxies have an
   inner plate like rotation, whereby angular velocity is the same,
   but tangential velocity is proportional to *r* times *\omega*.


So I am working through this land once more.   It's a mysterious place
with lots of curiousities and occasional flashes where it all makes
sense, just briefly, before descending and spiralling in inward
circles. 

To some centre of mass, a local meeting place.   Whirring around at
the edge of the plate, trying to hang on and surf the waves.

What follows is often quite dramatic, as it seems to gather pace away
from the centre, having broken its ties.   In fact, much of the
perceived motion is the constant angular velocity of the inner plate,
as it seems to zoom past.

Some masses may be rotating rapidly,  this seems to give them some
stability, but will tend to unwind as it moves away from the central
mass. 

To a new level far from the core, before blending with its surrounings
and drifting through the spirals.

A large and caught in a vortex, spinning madly, until it gets a tad
off-centre and away to the outer galaxy.

I am looking at a pool, with a jet a foot or so below the surface.

From time to time I see vortices forming, always rotating the same
way.

Closer inspection shows a veritable galactic rotation curve.

Watch a little longer and there is an ant at the centre of the vortex.

It's a big ant, around 1.5cm long.   And it is spinning like mad with
the same angular velocity as the rest of the vortex.

Sometimes there is a wobble and the ant gets off centre, spinning
rapidly.

It rapidly spirals outwards, with its rotation decreasing in the
process, in effect trading angular momentum to potential energy.

Perhaps even enough to be ejected from the galaxy.

Angular momentum?   Inertial dragging by giant black holes.

What does it have to do with the detections of gravitational waves and
the mysterious gravitational waves.

Is it possible that the time interval between observing a new galaxy
arriving at the edge of our visible universe and the detection of a
gravitational wave from the same, rises as the mass of the black hole
does?

The key observation is the extent to which the black hole can slow
down time, or rather the distance at which its inertial drag on time
is no longer notable.

So it is possible that the time interval in between a gamma ray burst
and the detection of the gravity wave from same rises as the central
mass does, posibly rather significantly?

An excellent source of information on gravitational wave information
for the current operational run can be found here::

  https://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/selected.html


It also records gamma ray detections.   GCN is a global alert network
so telescopes can react when a gravity wave is detected.

June was a curious month.  An event at the beginning, then nothing
until right at the end, now July has already provided another.

I've read some papers discussing various aspects of the parameters
that are being assumed for each detection.

One paper was suggesting we may be seeing reflections from the sun (I
tend to think this is likely, with also interference from Jupiter.)

But baby steps.

More detections
===============

It is now August 16th.

Since June 30th, there have been about one or two detections per week.

The most recent detection was on the August 14th.

I have been following the reports.  This global reporting
collaboration is fascinating.

As far as I can tell, most of the collisions detected have been
between larger (10-100 solar mass) bodies.

I believe there have been some collisions involving smalle (less than
3 solar masses?), which would have been neutron star collisions, where
we might hope to see coincident radiation in other spectra.

Whatever the source of the wrinkles, their shape is characteristic.

An oscillation that slowly (over 1-100 seconds) rises in both
frequency and intensity, until it hits a sharp peak and is followed by
a settling down, or ring-down.

Plan
====

Visualisation of local galaxies and solar system objects.

Raw signals for full set of observations.

Localisation information.

Model for new arrival.
