=================
 Static Universe
=================

I began a previous `expanding.rst` by talking about *de Sitter space*
and saying::


   Within this space, time-like geodesics follow two distinct fields:
   expanding and contracting fields.


I received some feedback::
  

   I need to correct one major misunderstanding.  You write: "Within
   [de Sitter] space, time-like geodesics follow two distinct fields:
   expanding and contracting fields."  This is not correct.  De Sitter
   space is highly symmetric.  All geodesics are equivalent.  The
   dichotomy between expanding and contracting that you refer to only
   comes into play when you have an observer.  Like most of cosmology
   these concepts are observer dependent.

This turned out to be most helpful.  A few weeks have passed and a lot
of thought on how to simplify things, very much helped by a better
understanding of what I think we may be seeing.

I was going to edit the  `expanding.rst` piece, but correcting things
round here that are not quite right would be a long project.

So a new piece is in order.  Almost everything below appears in some
form or other in Colin Rourke's, "A new paradigm for the universe".

The arguments there are very much more precise and much of the book
explores the mathematics of de Sitter space, having established strong
arguments why it is appropriate.

In what follows I am just trying to articulate my current view and
understanding of what we may be seeing.

Outline
=======

*Perfect Copernican Principle (PCP)*::

  No particular location should be special.

  This should also be true of time as well as space

I like to think of this as *space is pretty much the same
everywhere*.  

Indeed, as we look into the heavens this does appear to be the case.
Spiral galaxies as far as the eye can see.

Our immediate vicinity (say withing 50-100 million light years) is
a well catalogued collection of some 800 or so galaxies.

So let's assume the rest of the universe is more of the same, at least
for the next 40 billion light years or so.

There is a peculiarity with red-shift in our observations.  The
further away a galaxy is the redder it looks.

Galaxies further away are moving faster and faster, the further away
they are, the faster they are receding is conventional wisdom.

Certainly, the red shifts in our observations are increasing as
galaxies get further away.

How does this square with the PCP?

In short it does not seem to.  In some parts of the universe, galaxies
zipping by at close to the speed of light, whereas in our vicinity the
average speed is about one thousandth of that.

This does not mean that the red shift is not real, rather that the
interpretation that it means the distant galaxies are receding at
super-luminal speed, may be in-correct.

However, for the purpose of calculation in *de Sitter space* is ideal
as it nicely models this expansion.

Colin suggests it that space itself creates a drag on time and red
shift accumulates as light passes longer and longer distances.

This is indistinguishable from the case that more distant sources are
receding faster and the intervening space is not changing anything.

Regardles what the reality is, there comes a distance when the
Minkowski metric starts to make a difference, the galaxy appears to be
receding at a significant portion of light.

In our locality, most of the time relative velocities are a small
fraction (< 0.01) of the speed of light and simple cartesian geometry
suffices for calculation.

Further out, the Minkowski metric starts to become more important in
calculations, since the aparent relative velocity is approaching a
significant proportion of the speed of light.

The magic piece in all this is the way that matter appears to create
space.  A mental picture I use is time slowing, but it has to be noted
that in de Sitter Space time and position are intertwined.

All this happens in a way that does not break causality.  Light
arrives at the reciever in the same order that it leaves the emitter.

The *Minkowski* metric is important here (cf Zeeman Causality implies
Lorentz group).

[1] shows how in de Sitter space light arriving from a distant emitter
to an observer always follows the same pattern, due to symmetries
within de Sitter space.


Static Universe
===============
 
By *static* I mean the PCP universe described above.

Galaxies as far as you can go.

But those beyond A we may never have seen (or have we?) and others we
have seen since time eternity.

Some equations and numbers to keep in mind::

   A = M * N

   M = 10^11 suns equals 0.03 in natural units.
   N = 10^10

   c = 3e8 m/s

   v = 3e5 m/s

   v ~= c / 1000

The size of the visible universe, *a*, the mean mass of a galaxy, *M*
and the number of galaxies, *N*.   **a = N * M**.

Why it appears to expand.

What we can calculate from the rate of expansion we see.  The inertial
drag of galactic cores across the universe.

In turn, this should give a value to tune galactic rotation models
to.  I.e. to understand why we see the specific rotation curves for
velocity of stars in a galaxy.

It also should apply to planetary orbit calculations.

Expansion as an illusion
========================

Gamma Ray Burst
===============

All emitters arrive with a burst.

This may be preceded by a long period of microwave background noise.

de Sitter Space
===============

Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation
=====================================

Thermal with a temperature of 2.7 degrees Kelvin.

This is the temperature of pretty much all of the intergalactic dust.

So as light from distant galaxies looming over the horizon is shifted
red as it passes to us.   At the Hubble distance it tends towards
being infinitely red shifted.

There seems to be a contradiction in the model that views a gamma ray
burst as our first view of a distant source, and yet says that we see
galaxies looming in the distance in the form of the CMB.

It is important to realise that the reason that the CMB is in such
good agreement with thermal equilibrium is because the universe itself
is in such a state of thermal equilibrium.

Once light rays get shifted to microwave, they just add to this
thermal background.  

  
Gravitational Waves update
==========================

The *O3* observation run is now well underway.

Some 30-40 detections over a period of six months.

Much talk of multi-messenger astronomy, but so far a shortage of
examples where simultaneous observations have been made, as far as I
am aware.

I still need to go back and take a closer look at sky map localisation
for these events.

For now, this is a good source of information and data relating to
gamma ray bursts and gravitational waves::

    https://gcn.gsfc.nasa.gov/selected.html


I have spent considerable time puzzling over gravitational waves and
whether they will show the same propogation peculiarities that light
does.

I feel they will and that some, perhaps all, of the events that
LIGO is detecting are in fact new cosmic arrivals.

This would raise a puzzle over why we are not routinely seeing
coincident gamma ray bursts.  It is something I have puzzled over
without fully resolving.

It is early days for gravitational wave detection.  Presumably, the
current detections are the larger end of the event spectrum, so that
may give a clue.



Why am I skeptical of colliding black holes?
--------------------------------------------

There are a number of reasons that I am skeptical.

a. I am not convinced it is possible for matter to create waves in this
   way, in short I am not sure gravity works quite like that.

b. The distribution of sizes of colliding objects.  Why do we not see
   collisions of bigger objects?  Is the distance distribution skewed
   in any way?

c. I believe all the current detection processing line works of
   templates derived from more detailed calculations using the Kerr
   metric, but I could be wrong.

d. The arrival of a new galaxy at the Hubble distance may trigger a
   gravitational wave, similar to the way it triggers a gamma ray burst.

Regardless of what is happening, it would be productive to try to
simulate the merging of black holes using the physics of [1].

With respect to d., this raises the question of why we do not seem to
be seeing simultaneous gamma ray bursts and gravitational waves.

This may be because:

1. we have incomplete coverage

2. in general the gravitational wave and gamma ray bursts can happen
   some considerable time apart.

3. It is more like an eclipse: some receivers see the total eclipse,
   some just get the penumbra.

4. We cannot hope to understand this without modelling universal
   harmonics observed in the cosmic microwave background.

5. Actually, the pattern we see in the CMRB comes almost entirely from
   lensing by our local galaxies, once that is removed there's not
   much left.

Or some collection of the above.
   

Arriving and departing
======================


Notes
=====

Observations would seem to show that our visible universe is saturated
with galaxies.

Each galaxy centred on a giant, super massive centre.

Our observations of this universe show this curious red shift, the
further away a light source is the greater the red shift.

Surely, this is just what we should expect, due to the inertial drag
caused by the intervening galaxies?

Each black hole, twisting and slowing time, giving the illusion of an
expanding universe.

Curious behaviour at the Hubble distance.

New arrivals and old friends.

Harmonics
=========

The harmonics of the universe seem to be on a scale commensurate with
the typical galactic peculiar velocity.

How far can the gravitational wave from a galaxy go before the galaxy
has done a full rotation?

Magnetism and the speed of a stream of electrons?


Plan
====

Mass times angular velocity over distance.

We know the mass and the distance, but what is the actual angular
velocity of the galaxy?

Assume on average, there is a shift in space time, amounting to
~70km/s over a distance of 3.2 million light years (= 1 mega parsec).

A change in velocity of about c/4000 where c is the speed of light.

Now if we approximate things and assume the nearest galaxies account
for the major part of this change, then we can look at the path that
the light takes from each galaxy and calculate the aggregate effect of
all the galaxies on that light as it makes its journey to us.

For this to give a useful estimate we would need good estimates for a
number of parameters for each galaxy in the neighbourhood::

  mass

  distance

  velocity of the galaxy

  redshift

There is likely enough information to estimate each of these, although
in many cases the various parameters are inter-twined.

We can also take a statistical approach, including computer
simulation, to model either the local galaxies or a larger universe.

Constrain the simulation to obey Hubble expansion.

    k omega mass / r

galaxies.

Hubble constant.   Allows calibration of inertial drag.

Observations in nearby galaxies alone should be plenty to get a
reasonable value.

This may help in understanding why galaxies travel and rotate at the
speeds they do.

I suspect fully resolving this would involve some understanding of
galactic tidal effects and harmonics.

I also suspect that magnetism, protons and electrons may play a role.

Software
--------

Understand the software used in gravitational wave processing.

Specifically, the `bayefits` used in creating sky maps for the source
of gravitational waves.

More generally, work more with `astropy`.

In particular,  `astropy.coordinates`.

Karmapi and Blume
-----------------


[1] Another paradigm for the universe.  Colin Rourke.  aka "The Book
of magic."

