================
 Colin P Rourke
================

*A new paradigm on the universe.*

https://msp.warwick.ac.uk/~cpr/paradigm

ISBN: 9781973129868

Or CPU central processsor unit?

CP R s t U

CPR: show time universe

Simulate nested spherical waves.

So what is going on here?

Karma Pi started as a toolkit to explore data.

In fact, little more of some examples of how to use *matplotlib*,
*pandas* and pure *python* to explore data.

One goal was to find ways to generate data to help build better models
to help us better understand our changing climate and future
implications.

Climate re-analysis data, such as is available through the Copernicus
project, is available for many variables on a 0.75 degree global grid,
or higher.

The initial goal is to fit hidden Markov models to this data.   The
idea being, that if we can capture the Markovity in the data then we
can project that forward as a baseline of what we might expect with
no action.

Further, it is expected that those markov models themselves, may
provide insights into underlying processes driving the climate.

Karma Pi has most of the tools that are needed to start exploring.

In particular, tools for manipulating and visualising gridded data
from a roughly spherical objects.

As we move out from Earth and expand into the solar system we can
again use nested spheres to help model solar weather and its impact on
earth's climate.

Moving further still from earth to the centre of our galaxy and the
physics described in *A new paradigm*, nested spheres can be used to
model what is happenning at various key distances from the centre of a
galaxy.

The same code that is used for modelling earth should work for
modelling spiral galaxies.

The twist is that int the latter case I want to embed everything in de
Sitter Space along the lines of *A new paradigm*.

The current focus is on how gravitational waves propogate from the
centre of a neutron star, factoring in the effect time dilation has.

A key motivation in writing this code is to improve my own
understanding of the ideas in the book, in particular an exploration
of de Sitter space.

This brings us to hyperbolic spaces and more projection of sphere like objects.

Time and frequency
==================

And this whole thing with time, or redshift, or gamma ray bursts
coming in to view.

Earth
=====

Climate
=======

Spheres
=======

Mach and de Sciama
==================

de Sitter Space
===============

New Edition
===========

::
   
   Thus, unlike the dark matter hypothesis, the inertial drag
   hypothesis is a necessary part of a complete theory. Furthermore,
   the inertial drag hypothesis also underlies a good model for the
   dynamics of spiral galaxies, whereas the dark matter hypothesis
   leaves this problem unsolved.


Indeed, the inertial drag model shows how the dark matter would need
to be arranged.


::

   Here it is explained how inertial drag allows black holes to absorb
   the angular momentum in infalling gas/plasma and to grow by
   accretion.


This bit always my head hurt until now.

So momentum is conserved overall, it just passes from infalling matter
to the black hole.

So momentum conserved overall (in-falling matter + black hole).



Re Sag A*::

   This misunderstanding will be cleared up at a later stage.

