Dear Stephen,

It is with considerable hesitation that I write to you.    

I am sure you are inundated with messages from people that think they
have new insights on the universe.

I am afraid this is just one more such message, but I believe with a
significant probability of actually being of value.

I have attached a CV so you can learn a little of my background.  I
grew up in the UK, attended Warwick University in the early 1980's
where I earned 1st class honours in mathematics.

I have been fascinated and intrigued by the mysteries of quantum
mechanics for longer than I care to remember.

For many years I would think about double slit experiments, what could
possibly be going on, as I drifted off to sleep at night, always sleep
would come before understanding.

The recent discovery of gravitational waves has led me to what I
believe is a new interpretation of the theory of gravity.  One that
naturally explains the mysteries on the quantum scale and indeed
quanta themselves.

The theory provides a mechanism by which momentum is turned into
energy and vice versa.

It may lead to a very natural derivation of Planck's constant.
Indeed, it was whilst puzzling over Planck's constant that I began to
think of the harmonic series: 1, 1/2, 1/3, 1/4, 1/5... shrinking
wavelengths, the same energy in each wavelength.

Since the mass available is finite, so will the energy be that it
gives rise to.  The sum of a harmonic series is infinite, but for a
finite mass it will be truncated at some point as the energy runs out.

The theory arises by considering the distribution of energy within a
pair of black holes as they spiral into each other.  The two blobs of
mass orbit each other faster and faster.  Colour the energy from one
black hole red and the other blue -- the result will be a stunning
spiral of blue and red.

Now a harmonic distribution can arise naturally -- imagine a rapidly
spinning ball emitting energy into the void.

For the first revolution, there is just a void so the energy
propagates freely into the void.  At the second revolution, the new
energy has to try to get in harmony with that emitted in the first
revolution.  The third revolution has to get in harmony with the first
two etc.

Very approximately equal amounts of energy are emitted each
revolution, but waves of higher and higher frequencies will emerge.

In fact, the initial energy should be roughly equal for each integer
frequency.

The small imbalances in energy between revolutions are what allows
certain frequencies to dominate.

A band with just a little more energy will start to dominate and
absorb energy from the higher frequencies in harmony with that band.
The nature of the universe that is created depends entirely on the
nature of the slight imbalances in energy that get magnified as the
harmonics emerge.

The key observation, which man has known for thousands of years, is
that the universe strives towards local harmony.

Resonance is everywhere.   This is also key.   If two bodies of
roughly equal mass are circling each other then the gravitational
waves emanating from those bodies will strive to get in harmony with each
other.   In the absence of stronger forces they will succeed and begin
to circle each other.

There are many more fascinating aspects to the theory, I am collecting my thoughts here:

https://github.com/swfiua/karmapi/blob/master/docs/quantum_theory_of_gravity.rst

One exciting aspect of the interpretation is that when two black holes
of finite mass collide there is not actually a singularity.

Since some of the energy is turned into a gravitational wave that
spreads through the universe some information is lost, or rather stays
outside the Schwartzchild radius, but my guess is that the same
imbalances that existed inside the black holes before the collision
will re-emerge after that collision.

As you can imagine, this interpretation has profound implications
around the question of whether God plays dice and many, many other
issues. 

Dark matter can be explained as local areas of structure in the
universal gravitational field almost surely formed by the slow
evaporation of black holes through Hawking radiation.  If the theory
is correct there ought to be considerable structure and patterns
within the Hawking radiation.

I believe that gravity is the only force acting in the universe, that
electromagnetism, strong and weak nuclear fields are just some of the
many, many manifestations of the harmony for which the universe
strives.

I hope you find this of interest and would love the opportunity to
share more ideas with you.

If you got this far, many thanks for your time.

All the best.

Johnny Gill

PS here is the theory in poetic(?) form:

https://github.com/swfiua/karmapi/blob/master/docs/dear_reader.rst
