====================
 Bermuda Tech Talks
====================

Last night, 2017/10/5 Alvaro Boirac gave a fascinating talk on
blockchain technology, focussing on bitcoin.

Thanks Alvarro for the talk last night, it really gave great insight
into where the security and trust comes from in blockchains.

**the security comes from the book-keeping competition**

In short, it is more profitable to use your resources to help with the
book-keeping than it is to try to break the system.

This helps drive the book-keeper behaviour.  

Book keepers want to know if someone has already signed the ledger, so
they listen out for the messages, so they can verify the new signing
and move on to signing the next block of transactions.

You cannot start trying to sign until you have the id of the previous block.  

Now one side affect of this is that the book-keepers will naturally
try to get in sync with each other.

Open shared ledgers of trust are a fascinating way to share
information.

This karma pi project has been struggling with how to collaborate and
share data and information.

In particular, climate data of all sorts.  Observations, reanalysis
data.  Model results.  Simulation results.

How do we share the work of sharing the knowledge?

If the knowledge and data is shared on a block chain, then the
book-keeping competition dynamic will help keep everyone in sync.

Always remembering that the parameters of the book-keeping competition
can be varied.   For example, a competition with only a few
competitors might ask for a minimum quorum of agreement, rather than
the 50% bitcoin rule.

Since networks can change over time, the actual trust in a network
perhaps depends on the set of people who are paying attention to that
network and what they are paying attention to.

Trust breaks down when personal observations are not reconcilable with
the narrative that is being told.

But back to sharing open data.

Suppose meta data about data is stored on a ledger.  It might look
like:

::
   { source='ecmwf',
     date='2017/10/5',
     checksum='adfkjdi3jih3klj3ikfhnoheqoppnhdaecght',
   }


::

   { checksum='afkdjafjadsl',
     blocks=['asfdsafdas', 'adsfasdf', '974334343',
   }
::

Now if we just have somewhere to store blocks and a protocol that
allows people to say "who has *dakfjdaslfdsa*?".   

And we may be there.

Now storing data in this is a very general solution and so should have
very wide applications.

Perhaps there is asolution(?) here that can help with the fake news
issue.

Who is vouching for what is being said?  Who trusts the source?  So
what about blockchain social media?

Share the work, share the trust.  Share the information.

Git
===

It is worth noting that the version control system *git* uses some of
the same techniques that blockchain uses to help it keep track of
changes in data.

So an alternative to using blockchain is to use a git repository to
store the meta data.

The down-side is that you no longer have the book-keeper competition
to keep everything in sync.

The upside is everyone can have their own story.

Rather than use a blockchain, use a git repository to store the meta data.

Perhaps best of all would be to combine the two?

And now for something completely... or maybe related?

There are intriguing links between the cryptography of bitcoin and the
nature of the universe itself.

And the nature of information, data and trust and knowledge.

And now for..

LIGO Nobel Prize
================

It was announced this week that the LIGO experiment team:

..

   Weiss, Barish, and Thorne received the Nobel Prize in Physics "for
   decisive contributions to the LIGO detector and the observation of
   gravitational waves." Weiss was awarded one-half of the total prize
   money, with Barish and Thorne each received a one-quarter
   prize.


This is a stunning experiment that is able to detect "wobbles" in the
time of arrival of two beams of light, travelling 90 degrees to each
other, down 4km long vaccuum tubes and then looking at the
interference pattern the beams make when they return.

It can detect tiny difference, a tiny fraction of the width of a proton.

The project is a huge collaboration of scientists and engineers.

It gives us direct evidence of something Einstein and his peers only
wondered about 100 years ago.

I would like to give a talk on LIGO and how this allows us to gain
fundamental new insights into our universe.

The talk would also reference the Easter Island Moai and the dance of
the rongo-rongo, un-deciphered Rapa Nui writings.

As for timing, not sure how much longer I am going to be here, so
sooner rather than later would be good.

Would be cool if others would help out with this idea.

Someone like Alvaro who can help translate this stuff into its essence.



