==========
 Rapa Nui
==========

Once upon a time there was a team of stone masons who carved out a
giant block of rock from the volcanic tuff on the side of an extinct
volcano.

A second team carved a similar block.

Once the blocks were complete, with carved heads and a rounded front
edge, the rock underneath the horizontal moai was carved away in such
a way that the Moai was able to tile and rise under its own weight.

Balance is critical here.  First make it so the giant block is nearly
tipping, then make it oscillate like a tiny pendulum.

A second Moai placed close and made to oscillate at the same frequency
will then resonate in harmony with the first.

Once upright, they will walk down the hill together.

The key is that the two Moai are in resonance, the gravitational waves
one sends out being in harmony with the other.   As one sways, so does
the other in an equal and opposite motion.

They may start to circle each other.

To keep the motion going, a source of energy is required.   The Moai
start at the top of the hill and slowly walk down it, earth's
gravitational field supplying the energy.

Easter Island is where it is because it is at the centre of a giant
rotating magnetic storm on planet earth.

The rock of the Moai likely contain significant quantities of iron,
rocks that can hold a magnetic field.

This may be a key to how the Moai can rock and resonate without that
resonance building to the point that they topple.

Now, since the Moai are in effect giant magnets, the earth's magnetic
field will tend to push them back upright.  If you move a magnet
through a magnetic field, that field resists the movement and an
electric current is generated.  If the electric current is exactly the
right size to create an equal and opposite force to the movement, then
the Moai will simply rock like a pendulum.

Around each Moai, a standing wave will form.  This standing wave turns
the Moai into a giant rocking pendulum trapped in the fabric of space
time.

As more Moai are created and set on their journey of walking down to
their resting place on the ahu platforms, the Moai will resonate in
harmony.

At a certain density of Moai, this resonance will be so strong, the
wave produced will make it impossible to add another Moai to the
system.

The Moai might start to rock gently, but the oscillations will
increase over time and eventually it will topple.

To the people of Rapa Nui, this all must have seemed like magic, a
special power, or Mana.

The people will have learnt that certain times of the year there is a
greater probability of a new Moai staying stable.

Archaeologist are fond of creating narratives that fit with the
artifacts they discover.

The best narratives, the ones that are in fact the true story, lead to
other discoveries.

This account is one such narrative.

It is hard to imagine that the people would not have had great
ceremonies when a Moai was ready to be launched.   Maybe they were
always launched at full moon, at certain times of the year?


And this leads to the mysterious *rongorongo* writings that have been
discovered.

Messages etched onto special wood used for writing.   This is not just
old envelopes onto which you scribble a shopping list, rather
expensive, hard to obtain writing paper.

What was most important to the people of Rapa Nui?   The records of
the Moai's walks down to the coast.  The ones that walked, the ones
that fell.

The ahu are just platforms build to help bring a Moai to rest at a
place where it can strengthen the Mana of the island.

Perhaps the *ahu* are at places where Moai came to rest.   Later,
perhaps after a storm they may have started to walk again.

A well constructed *ahu* should have a gentle upward slope, so the
Moai can slowly lose its forward momentum.

Moai will spin as they walk.  This turns them into giant, slowly
revolving gyroscopes.

The spin itself leads to stability, because of the law of conservation
of angular momentum, which is just a corollary to the law of
conservation of momentum, which itself is just a fundamental property
of gravitational fields.

The slight asymetry in the Moai, due to the carving of heads has the
wonderful property that Moai are statistically much more likely to
come to rest facing inland than facing out to sea.


Reference
=========

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J5YR0uqPAI8

http://www.robertschoch.com/articles/schochbaddeleyeasterislandproposal.pdf
