================
 Beyond the car
================

The car has shaped cities for many decades.

Giant highways linking cities of congestion.

Suburbs commuting to cities for work.

How about a re-think?


Cities
======

Great cities are easy to get around.

London and Paris, use the underground.

Netherlands, ride a bike.


Everything but the last mile
============================

For many journeys it is only the last mile or so where the roads have
a reasonable volume of traffic, say 10 vehicles per minute.

Let's build a network for the 10 per minute roads.

The idea is to have a hierarchy of connections.

Enter a pod, enter a destination and away you go.

Slowly downtown, as pods move around 15km, weaving with bikes, and
taking the podlift over junctions.

Synching with a collector that lifts the pod into the maglev network.

For a short journey just stay in the pod, you'll be sent down the
slippage towards your destination.

If you're on a bike, but with further to go, try a bike pod.

Or take one of the routes that has bike antigravity assist.

And if you are on foot then you can walk through all of town without
having to wait for vehicles.

The last mile
=============

Downtown, 10 block areas.

Bikes, pedestrians and low speed (15-20km/h) lightweight vehicles.

Magic shuttles 20km/h no stops.

No door problems.

Experiment with winter routes which take advantage of snow and ice.

Dual: bike/ski routes?   At least one should be good, whatever the
weather.

Some days, you should just stay home and shovel.



How to get from here to there?
==============================

I wrote the above in December 2019.

It's now mid-May and still snowing.

How to make transit less risky with covid-19.

Distancing is hard on a bus.

Some things that may help:

* open windows

* fewer passengers

* give the driver space and open windows.

* less time on the bus.

How can we have less time on the bus?

With less traffic we can create bus priority routes.

With more buses we can have more serving each route, so they don't all
stop at every stop.

So how can we get more buses?

One option is to divide the area into a number of segments.

Now suppose you rotate the buses round the segments.  They all work
one segment.  So if there were ten segments, you would get ten times
the number of buses, with long gaps in between.

Typical buses, you wait 30 minutes then 8 come along at once.

Most buses will miss most stops, so you get down town faster, less
time to share air.

If distancing is in force, keep all the buses running to reduce spread.


Contact tracing and the transit pass
------------------------------------

Many transit systems have some sort of payment card such as *Presto*
or *Oyster*.

In many cases there is a high percentage of riders that are using the
cards. 

Each time a user taps, the system knows where they are.  If they take
the bus, the system presumably knows the bus number and route.

For rail, things are more ambiguous, since tapping is often enough to
get to a platform, but there is no information on which train is
taken.

2021 vision
===========

So what happened to transit in 2020?

Where I live.  People stayed home.

Transit use was way down.  Town was quiet.  Too quiet.

This allowed those relying on transport to get to essential work in
un-crowded buses, with open windows.

In my city a combination ...

Bus service cut and buses kept to timetable, it is still common to see
buses waiting to avoid being early.

When you factor in apps that work with open data feeds giving bus
location information, sticking to the timetable makes less and less
sense, the more regular a service becomes.

Decisions to reduce spending on transport at this time, have missed an
opportunity to experiment with a contrarian approach to see just how
good the transport can be.

Over the summer efforts focussed on active transport.  Many cities
have seen a boom in cycling, in particular.



